For this first exercise of the chapter,
we're going to create a
person class to demonstrate the different
techniques we've learned for creating
classes.
So we'll start by opening a program called
person.py.
We
begin our definition with the keyword
class followed by the name of the class.
Next we're gonna create our constructor.
And what we'll have for a person is a
name, a sex and an age.
That will be all we're going to define for
a person for this particular exercise.
So, the first thing we do is assign
parameters to fields just like so.
The next thing we'll do is create our two
string methods so that we can display
the state of an object at any time, and
we'll do it very simply, just like so.
The next thing we'll do is create some
methods that allow us to
change some of the attribute, so some of
the fields of a person.
For example, if the person is female, then
we might wanna be
able to change a person name if, for
example, the person got married.
So we might write a function called
changeName.
That simply allows the name to be changed.
And then we also might want to be able to
change the age like on a annual birthday.
So we'll write a method called changeAge.
And what we'll do is we'll just assume
that an
age is going to increase by one whenever
we change it.
It's possible, though not likely, that we
could need another method
that would change the age by more than an
increment of one.
But generally speaking, the only time a
person's age changes is on their birthday.
So we'll keep it at that.
So we'll create a couple of objects here.
So person one gets the following
attributes,
Jane Doe, female and 23 years old.
Person two equals person Bob Smith, male,
55.
And we can say print, person1 plus
person1, like so.
Now this could be an interesting problem.
And what I'm looking at is how the age
is probably not going to come across as a
string.
So what we need to do is go back and
use the string function to change that
into a string.
And the other thing that we need to do is
convert person to string when we write it
out like so.
There we go.
Now let's try another method.
And looking at the method, you'll notice
that we provided the age as a parameter.
And there's really no reason to do that.
So let's take that out, and then the
changeAge
method will just be an empty parameter
list like so.
And then we can just copy this line.
Put it back in.
You notice that the two string method is
great for testing
your class implementation to see if it's
working correctly or not.
So, changeAge works just fine.
Let's try one more method.
I am only working on person1, and that's
probably just fine.
[BLANK_AUDIO].
And then we'll use the two string method
one more time on person1.
And
here we see how person one changes as
we apply the different methods to the
person1 object.
So here's the code again.
And really, the only tricky part of this
code is
to remember that the object returned by
the two string
method has to be converted to string if we
are
going to use it in a concatenation with
another string.
If we are going to use it by itself, for
example, to print
this data of person2, then we don't need
to use the string function.
So that wraps up this first exercise of
the chapter.
And now we're going to move to the second
exercise, where we're going
to work with the string class and provide
some extra functionality to that class.